

Ans. 
Why use Node.Js?

1. It's Fast:

Node.js is a JavaScript runtime that uses the V8 engine developed by Google for use in Chrome. V8 compiles and executes
JavaScript at lightning speeds mainly due to the fact that V8 compiles JavaScript into native machine code.

2. It uses Event Looping Mechanism:

The event loop is a single thread that performs all I/O operations asynchronously. 
When a Node application needs to perform an I/O operation, it sends an asynchronous task to the event loop,
along with a callback function, and then continues to execute the rest of its program.

3. Lots of Tools:npm is the Node.js package manager. is fast, robust, and consistent. It does a great job at 
specifying and installing project dependencies. It keeps packages isolated from other projects, avoiding version conflicts.

Another tool is Grunt that transform your files.

4. Client as well as Server Side: Node.Js acts as both server and client side language.

5. Multi user language: If Node.js excels at many concurrent connections, then it makes sense that it excels at
 multi-user, real-time web applications like chat and games.

5. Streaming Data: Since Node.js is very good at handling I/O, we can take advantage and build some cool things. 
For example, it’s possible to transcode audio or video files while they’re uploading, cutting down on the overall 
processing time. 

Node can read/write streams to websockets just as well as it can read/write streams to HTTP.



Comparison of Node.Js with other server side languages.

1.Asynchronous: Node.js was created because concurrency is difficult in many server-side programming languages, and often
 leads to poor performance.Most of the server side languages use synchronous type of programming. But, Node.Js uses 
assynchronous programming.This means that the server reacts to events and send the events.

2. Client and Server Side: It acts as both server side and client side type of programming language.

3. It is faster in execution than most of the other languages.

4. Event Looping Mechanism: Node.js uses an event loop, instead of processes or threads, to scale. Callbacks are defined,
 and the server automatically enters the event loop at the end of the callback definition. Node.js exits the event loop
 when there are no further callbacks to be performed.


Companies which are using Node.Js are:

1 LinkedIn, Microsoft, Amazon, Twitter, Paypal, Netflix etc.

